---
title: "A Case Against Cases"
date: 2019-06-13T11:12:29+02:00
draft: true
---
I've been involved several times on the other side of the table in the interviewing process, trying to assess the skills of a pospective employee. I wouldn't dream of asking a candidate to spend several hours on a case without giving them the opportunity to explain it and defend their choices. See, what I want to see in a case is not a perfect solution but I want to see how the specific candidate approaches the problem. Especially, I want to hear them reason about the decisions they made and what improvements they would make given a longer timeframe. _This_ is where you separate the good engineers from the bad ones, not by merely inpsecting their code.

Most good developers already have a full time job. We should assume they are probably less than excited to spend time away from their families building you a carousel of apartments for sale in the greater London area. So if you get several cases handed to you, I say you owe it to give each an every one of the candidates that followed your instructions a chance to defend and explain their choices. No unit tests? Sure, if you are developing a product under time pressure that is a reasonable thing to cut. Doesn't work on mobile devices? Sure, that was never part of the assigment so it shouldn't be taken into account.

If you are presented with several cases, merely accepting the best/pretties/tested solutions you are most likely limiting yourself to only the candidates who spent the most amount of time on the case. _Any_ developer can reach a great solution given enough time. A good developer can reason about their choices and the system as a whole. You can't expect to see those kinds of skills by only reading the code.

Say you were hiring a new writer and you give your prospective new writers each a case. They are supposed to write a short novel of ten pages and it should be about mermaids. Would you then dismiss all the novels that didn't also include pirates because you feel that they go together naturally? Of course not. You wouldn't take that into account, because it was never part of the initial assignment. Would you dismiss the novel that is truly great but only five pages long? Probably not. The individual has not followed the explicit instructions, but has proven to be a great writer in other ways.